---
layout: post
title: Space X - Space is Next Frontier
date: '2015-12-21 11:30:00 -0800'
categories: startups
---

Congrats to Elon Musk and SpaceX for ORBCOMM-2 Mission's success. History and dreams have been completed today for many of us.

After the earlier failed launch at 28th June, SpaceX did a lot of modifications to the rocket vehicle itself. Few notable ones are:
- Increasing the size of second stage so that it can hold more propellant
- Condense the liquid oxygen to even more colder temperatures to achieve higher density, hence more fuel storage.

These and few other changes gave the vehicle overall 30% increase in efficiency.

The launch was made to send 11 new satellites from ORBCOMM to put into low earth orbit and hence complete the 31 others to complete the ORBCOMM constellation. 6 of those 31 were previously launched by Falcon-9 in earlier flight.

Also one of the major changes in the whole mission is change of re-landing zone to be land based than earlier ocean based barge. Hence total landing area has been increased along with totally stable place to re-land makes it easier.

Total time from lift off to re-landing was about 10 minutes and in that ~16 millions saved for next space travel.

Get ready for the time when rockets will be as usable as are our aircrafts!

This is not only exciting in the terms of rocket science and future of space and SpaceX but also for all the startups who are aiming for things that are hard to come by. It says that dreams are not just dreams, keep working through those problems and future is yours.

> Reference: [http://www.spacex.com/webcast/](http://www.spacex.com/webcast/)
